We are going to get the answers from
the Platform Strategy Test.
In what business models does
the company create direct value
to its customers in linear models?
And in which business models is
the company not the owner of the
media or the productive
factors on the platforms?
Wake up what we said.
Uber is not the owner of the vehicles.
Airbnb is not the owner of the
houses, for example.
Thus, platforms are not
owners of the means or
productive factors.
On platforms, what is done is
to create an infrastructure
within which users generate
value for each other.
What is Netflix?
Netflix is a linear
model.
Netflix does what it does is license
or create audiovisual content that it
sells in subscription format to its
customers.
If you were buying directly
at Netflix, for example,
to the creators of content,
which were various companies,
we could talk about a platform,
but not.
It is a linear model.
Do you choose the features
of a platform?
Are there two sides or segments?
Is the value generated in a linear way?
No to.
The company is not the owner
of the productive means and the main
key resource it needs is the platform
itself, it is technology.
Why does the winner
take it all?
Because network effects help to
gain traction or momentum to one
or very few platforms to the
leaders, right.
Because they generate very important
entry barriers for the rest
because of those network
effects, right.
And because larger platforms
benefit from larger
network effects and
become almost monopolies.
The winner takes
it all.
What is the network effect?
Is the value increase generated
as the number of users
and interactions of
those users increases?
and yes.
Or is it the increase in
profitability that occurs from
having more users?
No, that is another topic.
The network effect is to increase
value for everyone on
the platform.
What is the network effect?
A vicious circle for the most
virtuous platforms or for the
bigger ones, yes.
Because they benefit from more value,
more users, more value.
A vicious circle for the
rest of them.
Both are correct.
Platforms are more valuable companies
than their linear competitors,
because they benefit from
greater entry barriers once they
have reached that critical mass,
those network economies, that
network effect, correct.
Lineable models are more scalable
than platforms, because the
resources needed are more scalable,
this is false.
The most scalable resource is technology,
it is the platform itself.
You can grow a lot without increasing
your costs.
This answer is false.
Which is more scalable?
Technology, people, real
estate or machinery?
Because usually the most scalable
resource is technology, because once
you have it developed,
you can capture more and more customers
without incurring additional
variable costs.
A real estate portal is a
platform with a model
marketplace ranked where more
in social media is one ranked.
Now let us understand the difference.
What is the difference between
a marketplace model like Airbnb,
for example, and a ranked one?
In the marketplace, transactions
are generated within the
platform.
In the marketplace, transactions
are generated outside the
platform.
Where are Airbnb transactions being made?
They are generated inside.
However, in a classified
model you are connecting supply
and demand.
What happens is that supply and demand,
then the transaction, are generated
outside the platform.
In the marketplace, transactions
are generated inside.
Which of the two models of monetization
is more attractive to you than the
two we are seeing?
The marketplace or the
classified platform.
Well, because it is more attractive
that of the marketplace because
within your platform are generating
payments, transactions, and you
find it easier to charge a percentage
of it.
Airbnb, what is a marketplace,
ranked or social network?
It is a marketplace.
If on Airbnb all you do is connect
supply and demand, but
then supply and demand are fixed
or rents are produced
outside of Airbnb, they'll
be ranked, but it's that
on Airbnb you pay directly.
The classified typically have
a monetization model that is
similar to that of a newspaper.
That is, they have advertising
revenue, advertising revenue.
Yes, this is correct.
Take into account what we have said.
Transactions are being
generated out, so what they
do is monetize normally.
Well, it is one of the possibilities
of monetization options.
Money through advertisers.
LinkedIn is a social network whose
monetization formula is as follows.
Advertising income, that is, companies
that advertise, that advertise
on LinkedIn, or advertising
income plus premium services.
It is clearly the second.
LinkedIn offers many types of
premium services to to individuals,
people looking for work,
etc.
On demand platforms, such as
Cavify, for example, or Uber,
price fixation is freely
carried out by supply and demand
or is set by the platform
itself.
In marketplaces, the price is usually
determined by the supply.
However, on demand platforms
are a more key-in-hand, closer
service in which the price
is directly fixed by the platform
itself.
In on-demand platforms, the main
determining factor of value
what is it?
The variety of offer, that is, that
there is a lot of very atomized
and quality offer, for example,
on Airbnb, in a marketplace,
the more offer, not only the more
quantity of offer, but
the more offerers there is
is much better.
Or on demand platforms is availability,
that is, it does not depend so much
on how many people there are, because
you do not have the perception
of how much offer there is, but the
only thing that matters is that they
provide you the service in time
and form.
On demand platforms is like
that.
On platforms like TripAdvisor
or YouTube, value is generated
by interaction with other users
or value is generated by
interaction with the content
that those users have generated.
In these networks that are
more content-centered, value
is generated by content itself,
not by interaction
with other users.
Facebook, for example, would be a
mixed model.
Facebook is more direct with
other people, but in the case
of TripAdvisor or YouTube
it is clear that you
interact with the content.
In linear models, do you have a
higher need for initial investment?
No to.
Do you bring value to your first customers?
and yes.
Is it difficult to bring value
to the first users?
No to.
We have to overcome the so-called challenge
of the egg and the chicken.
Of these four features, only the
second, the B, is a characteristic
of linear models, and is
that you bring value to your
first customers.
You don't need network effects, you
don't need critical mass.
How did the red ice cream overcome the challenge
of the egg and the chicken?
What did José Del Barrio say?
Reaching critical mass in a specific
geographic niche, they focused
on specific neighborhoods and
added both the supply of
restaurants and demand.
Offering an intrinsic value to
one side of the platform, like
OpenTable, for example,
allows you to add users
within one side, without
depending on the network effect.
Is this true or not?
It is true.
It is one of the strategies to overcome
the challenge of the egg and chicken.
What you do is, add to one side,
in the case of OpenTable were
restaurants too.
Why is it?
Because it offers restaurants
a service like software, it offers
them value.
So the restaurants, let's say,
join OpenTable without
the need for a critical mass
of consumers, of users.
And once you have reached it, that
you have added a sufficient mass
of supply, you open it to users,
you open it to consumers.
So that is the correct answer.